# Microsoft Quantum Development Kit (Q#)
The [Quantum Development Kit (QDK)](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/quantum/development-kit) is a software framework produced by Microsoft
Research’s Quantum Architectures and Computation Group (QuArC) in Redmond, Washington. QDK evolved from Microsoft’s previous research on the
Language Integrated Quantum Operations Simulator (LIQUi|⟩). It was initially released as a public preview on December 11th, 2017 and has
since had several subsequent releases that contain a range of changes, from simple bug fixes to major feature additions.

QDK is built on top of Microsoft’s .NET Core platform which is an open-source, platform-agnostic version of the .NET Framework.
It includes five main components:
- The Q# language, a new language specifically designed for quantum computing
- A standard library set that implements the primitive quantum operations and many utility functions
- A compiler that converts the Q# code into autogenerated C# code that the simulator can run
- A quantum simulator that can run the compiled Q# code on a classical computer
- Visual Studio and Visual Studio Code integration support for all of the above components

The names QDK and Q# are often used interchangeably to refer to the framework since they are quite tightly coupled. Q# is a functional-style
language, largely derived from Microsoft’s own F# language. While this paradigm is somewhat different than typical imperative languages, Q#
is simple enough that it is not difficult to learn by engineers that have not worked with functional programming languages before. It does
not represent arbitrary quantum states explicitly; rather, it assumes the users will construct their desired states via a sequence of quantum
logic gates. The states are then represented by the sequence of gates itself, much in the same way that quantum circuit diagrams represent them.

QDK assumes a software stack model where a classical computer acts as the primary control device and a quantum coprocessor acts as an assistive
slave device. The classical computer performs the pre- and post-processing portions of an algorithm, and when it needs to invoke a quantum
subroutine, it sends the relevant control signals down to the coprocessor. Portions of the classical code can be written in Q#, but it is expected
that the main “driver” code that invokes the quantum subroutines will come from a traditional program written in one of the conventional .NET
languages such as C#.

## Installation and Usage
Installation instructions are provided from [Microsoft's website](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/quantum/development-kit). Download the
[Visual Studio extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=quantum.DevKit) from the Visual Studio marketplace and install it.
After that, you can open the solution file here and build each library. We recommend using the Release configuration for performance reasons, unless
you want to walk through the code with the debugger, in which case use the Debug configuration. Once built, you can run the tests in the Visual
Studio Test Explorer.